README.adoc, before:

image:https://travis-ci.org/oliviercailloux/decision-uta-method.svg?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/oliviercailloux/decision-uta-method"]

# decision-uta-method
A repository containing the work done during my research about UTA method (Internship at LAMSADE - Dauphine).
> Work in progress 

Upon decompressing the archive, you will get the following structure:
```
.decision-uta-method
├── diagrams                            <- directory containing diagrams used
├── uta-calculator                      <- directory containing Java projects
├── docs                                <- directory containing all of the docs produced
│   ├── images                          <- directory containing all of the images used in this repo
│   ├── reports                         <- directory containing all of the reports made
│   ├── internship-report.pdf           <- pdf file explaining all the stuff done during the internship
│   └── internship-report.tex           <- LaTeX file that generated the internship-report.pdf file
├── .gitignore                          <- ignoring file
└── README                              <- this file
```

# UTA
The UTA method is used to solve a multi-criteria problem. It build a utility function based on the preferences of the DM and it consist in solving a linear program (LP).

An improved version of the UTA is the UTASTAR. In UTA we used a single error in UTASTAR we use a double positive error function. The updated version has performed better than the regular method. 

In the internship-report, you will find a section that explain the UTA method, illustrated with an example. 

# UTA Calculator - Criteria

To build the class of this program, you should execute the following command: 
#### on windows
```bash
mvn compile
```

# Example of a java class that will solve a Linear Program
An example of a LP problem: 
<p align="center">
  <img src="/docs/images/readme/example-lp.PNG?raw=true" alt="Alternative criteria result"/>
</p>

Running the examples will involve compiling them, then running them. 
  
# Utils - NumbersGenerator
This class will alow to generate numbers that have a target Sum. 

To build the class Utils, you should execute the following command: 
#### on windows
```bash
javac -d objs utils/NumbersGenerator.java 
```

When running the program, you can insert 2 arguments : 
```java
int counter; // default value : 4 
double targetSum; // default value : 1.0
```

For example, if you want to generate 4 numbers that have the sum of 1, all you have to do is execute the following command: 
#### on windows
```bash
java -cp objs; com.lamsade.utacalculator.NumbersGenerator 4 1.0  
```

# Utils - ScaleGenerator
This class will alow to generate a scale, this has been used to generate a scale for a criteria. 

To build the class Utils, you should execute the following command: 
#### on windows
```bash
javac -d objs utils/ScaleGenerator.java 
```

When running the program, you can insert 3 arguments : 
```java
double minValue;// default value : 10.0
double maxValue; // default value : 20.0 
int cuts; // default value : 4
```

For example, if you want to generate the scale of criteria that have a minimum value of 10 and a maximum value of 20 with 4 cuts, all you have to do is execute the following command: 
#### on windows
```bash
java -cp objs; com.lamsade.utacalculator.ScaleGenerator 10.0 20.0 4  
```

# Linear Program for the exercice Choice of Tranportation [UTA]
For the ChoiceTransportation exercice, you should run the following commands : 

#### on windows
```bash
javac -d objs -cp examples/ChoiceTransportation.java
java -Djava.library.path=lib -cp  com.lamsade.lp.ChoiceTransportation
```

# Linear Program for the exercice Buying New Car [UTA]
For the exercice Buying New Car, you should run the following commands : 

#### on windows
```bash
javac -d objs -cp examples/BuyingNewCar.java
java -Djava.library.path=lib -cp com.lamsade.lp.BuyingNewCar
```

Commit message:

/lib light version + Librairy section in README.adoc

README.adoc, after:

image:https://travis-ci.org/oliviercailloux/decision-uta-method.svg?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/oliviercailloux/decision-uta-method"]

# decision-uta-method
A repository containing the work done during my research about UTA method (Internship at LAMSADE - Dauphine).
> Work in progress 

Upon decompressing the archive, you will get the following structure:
```
.decision-uta-method
├── diagrams                            <- directory containing diagrams used
├── uta-calculator                      <- directory containing Java projects
├── docs                                <- directory containing all of the docs produced
│   ├── images                          <- directory containing all of the images used in this repo
│   ├── reports                         <- directory containing all of the reports made
│   ├── internship-report.pdf           <- pdf file explaining all the stuff done during the internship
│   └── internship-report.tex           <- LaTeX file that generated the internship-report.pdf file
├── .gitignore                          <- ignoring file
└── README                              <- this file
```

# UTA
The UTA method is used to solve a multi-criteria problem. It build a utility function based on the preferences of the DM and it consist in solving a linear program (LP).

An improved version of the UTA is the UTASTAR. In UTA we used a single error in UTASTAR we use a double positive error function. The updated version has performed better than the regular method. 

In the internship-report, you will find a section that explain the UTA method, illustrated with an example.  


# UTA Calculator - Criteria

To build the class of this program, you should execute the following command: 
#### on windows
```bash
mvn compile
```

# Example of a java class that will solve a Linear Program
An example of a LP problem: 
<p align="center">
  <img src="/docs/images/readme/example-lp.PNG?raw=true" alt="Alternative criteria result"/>
</p>

Running the examples will involve compiling them, then running them. 
  
# Utils - NumbersGenerator
This class will alow to generate numbers that have a target Sum. 

To build the class Utils, you should execute the following command: 
#### on windows
```bash
javac -d objs utils/NumbersGenerator.java 
```

When running the program, you can insert 2 arguments : 
```java
int counter; // default value : 4 
double targetSum; // default value : 1.0
```

For example, if you want to generate 4 numbers that have the sum of 1, all you have to do is execute the following command: 
#### on windows
```bash
java -cp objs; com.lamsade.utacalculator.NumbersGenerator 4 1.0  
```

# Utils - ScaleGenerator
This class will alow to generate a scale, this has been used to generate a scale for a criteria. 

To build the class Utils, you should execute the following command: 
#### on windows
```bash
javac -d objs utils/ScaleGenerator.java 
```

When running the program, you can insert 3 arguments : 
```java
double minValue;// default value : 10.0
double maxValue; // default value : 20.0 
int cuts; // default value : 4
```

For example, if you want to generate the scale of criteria that have a minimum value of 10 and a maximum value of 20 with 4 cuts, all you have to do is execute the following command: 
#### on windows
```bash
java -cp objs; com.lamsade.utacalculator.ScaleGenerator 10.0 20.0 4  
```

# Linear Program for the exercice Choice of Tranportation [UTA]
For the ChoiceTransportation exercice, you should run the following commands : 

#### on windows
```bash
javac -d objs -cp examples/ChoiceTransportation.java
java -Djava.library.path=lib -cp  com.lamsade.lp.ChoiceTransportation
```

# Linear Program for the exercice Buying New Car [UTA]
For the exercice Buying New Car, you should run the following commands : 

#### on windows
```bash
javac -d objs -cp examples/BuyingNewCar.java
java -Djava.library.path=lib -cp com.lamsade.lp.BuyingNewCar
```

# Librairy Or-tools

#### on linux
Two librairies are needed to run the project correctly, libortools.so and libjniortools.so.
You can get them here
```
https://developers.google.com/optimization/install/java/linux
``` 
We used the binary distribution version v6.7.4981 for Ubuntu 16.04 64bit. 
Download and unzip it, collect them in their /lib repository and stored them in /decision-uta-method/lib repository.
